![Peering Manager](media/peering-manager.svg "Peering Manager logo")

# BGP Management And Source of Truth

Peering Manager is an open source solution for modeling and documenting modern
BGP networks. It helps in maintaining healthy peering relations with other
networks by providing a "source of truth" to configure efficiently BGP
sessions. Providing a powerful API and integrating with other industry
standard tools such as PeeringDB, Peering Manager is a solid on which network
automation can rely.

## :material-server-network: Built for BGP Networks

Peering Manager has a data model which specifically address the needs of
network engineers and operators operating BGP networks. It delivers an
assortment of object types crafted to serve BGP design and documentation.

## :material-lock-open: Always Open

Because Peering Manager is an open source application licensed under [Apache
2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html), its entire code base is
completely accessible to the end user, and there's never a risk of vendor
lock-in. Additionally, Peering Manager development is an entirely public,
community-driven process to which everyone can provide input.

!!! tip "Peering Manager Development"
    Interested in contributing to Peering Manager? Check out our [GitHub
    repository](https://github.com/peering-manager/peering-manager) to get
    started!

## :material-language-python: Powered by Python

Peering Manager is built on the enormously popular
[Django](http://www.djangoproject.com/) framework for the Python programming
language, already a favorite among network engineers.

## :material-flag: Getting Started

* Try out our [public demo](https://demo.peering-manager.net/) if you want to
  jump right in
* The [installation guide](./setup/index.md) will help you get your own
  deployment up and running
* Or try the community [Docker image](./setup/container.md) for a low-touch
  approach

## :material-handshake: Helping

You can help this project in many ways. Of course you can ask for features,
give some ideas for future development, open issues if you found any and
contribute to the code with pull requests and patches.

You can also support the development of this project by
[sponsoring it](https://github.com/sponsors/gmazoyer). Developing such project
can be time consuming and it is done on personal time. Giving few
dollars/euros/pounds/etc... can be a way to say thanks and help to free some
time to develop this project.

## :material-presentation: Spreading The Word

Have a look at [the talks](https://peering-manager.net/talks.html) about
Peering Manager if you want to know more about it and its use cases.
